Hibernate
Should be in notes, or quick research

What is Hibernate? What is JPA?

Hibernate is an ORM solution for java that extends the interface JPA.

JPA (Java Persistence API) is the standard way for a Java application to interact with and convert relational database object to and from Java objects.

What is the benefit of using Hibernate over JDBC?

Hibernate provides caching mechanisms to cutdown on database fetching. Hibernate is database independent. Using hibernate reduces boilerplate code. Hibernate is easy to scale. Hibernate is a set of objects, so, a developer doesn't need to focus on or know the SQL well.

Tell me about some of the JPA annotations you have worked with? What do they do? How do you specify multiplicity relationships with JPA annotations?

@Entity - is used to identify a table to persist. @Table(name="") - is used to link a Java object to a database table @Id - is used to identify an index for the object to persist @ManyToMany - Indetify multiplicity describing cardinality between two tables @JoinTable - Needed in a manytomany - join two tables using a foreign key

What are the interfaces of Hibernate? SessionFactory - Holds L2 cache - creates the session - immutable for a single database Session - L1 cache - Wraps the jdbc connection - provides CRUD methods Configuration - configures the database Criteria - Query by object oriented specifications - same as HQL (Hibernate Query Language) Query - Used to query with sql in hibernate - you can use query to write a native SQL query (Optional) Transaction - Handle rollbacks, commits, open, close - TCL essentially (Transaction Control Language)

Tell me how you set up hibernate? What files are you editing, what goes in them, etc. You use the hibernate.cfg.xml file to set hibernate configuation

some properties: (username, password, dialect, driver, url, ddl-auto, etc...)

What ways are available to you to map an object to database entities in Hibernate?

Use the annotations directly above the object. Example: @Entity class User {}

...or using xml files to map the objects using xml.

In the session interface, what is the difference between save and persist methods? get and load methods? Update vs merge methods?

Save vs persist - persist return type is void, save return type is the primary key value generated by hibernate. persist will not be exectued if called outside of transaction boundaries, save will be executed even if called outside of transaction boundaries.

Update vs merge - update is faster than merge - with merge, you need to check if a detached object was changed from its previous persisted value in the database... with update, there is no check

get vs load - load throws and exception if no objects are exist to return; get returns a null.

What are the different session methods?

beginTransaction() - begin a unit of work, and return the associated transaction object save() - persist the given transient instance, first assigning a generated identifier - stores the object update() - update the persistent instance with the identifier of the given detached instance - updates the db record saveOrUpdate() - either save or update the given instance depending on the resolution of the unsaved value checks createQuery() - creates a new instance of query for the given HQL query string createSQLQuery() - creates a new instance of SQL query for the given HQL query string merge() - copy the state of the given object onto the persistent object with the same identifier persist() - make a transient instance persistent flush() - force the session to flush - must be called at the end of a unit of work - before committing the transaction and closing the session delete() - remove a persisent instance from the data store

What is the difference between Eager and Lazy fetching and how to setup either?

Lazy doesn't load until it needs to or is requested. Eager loads as soon as the application code executes - with lazy loading, we can avoid loading unused data vs eager loading minimizes trips to the database

What are the 4 ways to make a query using Hibernate?

HQL
NativeSQL
Criteria API
What is HQL? What makes it different from SQL?
Hibernate Query Language - SQL directly operates on the database objects through queries, HQL operates on objects and properties which is then translated into a specific dialect of SQL to act upon the relational database
What is caching? What is the difference between L1 and L2 cache?
Caching is local mechanism to enhance the performance of a system. - Hibernate caching acts as a layer between the actual database and the application - reduces the time taken to obtain the required data

L1 is the first place hibernate looks for data to try to save database trips

L2 is optional cache belonging to SessionFactory - much larger - all sessions share
How do you enable second level caching?

Tell me about NamedQueries.
The hibernate named query is way to use any query by some meaningful name. It is like using alias names
a key value pair

Can you write native SQL with Hibernate? Is this a good idea?
Yes, but it is better practice to use HQL so it can convert to a dialect based on the configuration file

What are the configuration options for Hibernate?
Driver, Dialect, username, password, url, hbm2dll: create-drop and others

How to specify the SQL dialect?
In the hibernate.cfg.xml: the configuration dialect options: hibernate.connection.dialect

**What data must be specified for the SessionFactory?**
The SessionFactory must be provided with JDBC connection properties

What is hbm2ddl?
Hibernate configuration that validates the DDL schema (Data Definition Language)
(validate, create, create-drop, update)

How would you configure Hibernate to print to the console all SQL statements run?
with the property: hibernate.show_sql=true

What are the different object states in Hibernate? What methods move objects to different states?
Transient, Persistent, Detached

Extra Research Required
Under what circumstances would your program throw a LazyInitializationException?

What is the Criteria API? Can you perform all DDL and DML commands with it? How do Restrictions and Projections work within this API?

What is a proxy? When does the proxy resolve to the real object?

What is the difference between Dynamic Insert and Dynamic Update?

What is automatic dirty checking?

What is Transactional Write Behind?

Explain how transaction propagation works

**Spring**

Spring Core

What are Spring Projects and Spring Modules?
SP: application template
SM: specific functionality/feature from spring
MVC, JDBC, Spring Security, AOP, ORM, TEST

What is IOC and what does the IOC Container do?
Inversion Of Control
An inversion of control container is like the event planner. It manages all the different requirements for creating a specific object instance.
It creates the dependency, then creates the object

What is dependency injection and what are some of the benefits of using dependency injection?
injects dependency into the object either through the constructor or setter methods
inject the repository into the service.

What types of dependency injection does Spring support?
Constructor-based injection
Setter Injection
Property-Based Injection (possibly not this)

What are some differences between BeanFactory and ApplicationContext? Which one eagerly instantiates your beans?
BeanFactory: Simplest implementation of Beans
The BeanFactory is the actual container which instantiates, configures, and manages a number of beans.
ApplicationContext: Extended version of BeanFactory with additional features - eagerly loaded

What is the Spring Bean lifecycle?
1.Beans are first instantiated 2. Their properties are set 3. Any associated interfaces or objects are made aware of their existence 4. The bean is made aware of any assocaited interfaces as well 5. Any other methods, particularly custom methods are invoked 6. Then the bean is ready for use 7. Once the bean is no longer used, it is marked for removal and a destroy method is invoked for the bean 8. Custom destroy methods are invoked, if any 9. Bean is destroyed

What is bean wiring? What about autowiring?
Bean wiring means creating associations between application components i.e. beans within the spring container.
Autowiring feature of spring framework enables you to inject the object dependency implicitly. It internally uses setter or constructor injection

What are the scopes of Spring beans? Which is default?
Global, Default - Singleton, Prototype, Session, Global Session, Request, Application

What is the concept of component scanning and how would you set it up?
With Spring, we use the @ComponentScan annotation along with the @Configuration annotation to specify the packages that we want to be scanned.

Extra Research
What are the different ways that Spring can wire beans?

What are the benefits and limitations of Java configuration?

What does the @Configuration and @Bean annotations do?

What is @Value used for?

What is Spring Expression Language? What can you reference using SpEL? What is the difference between $ and # in @value expressions?

Spring MVC
Explain the MVC architecture and how HTTP requests are processed in the architecture

What is the role of the DispatcherServlet? What about the ViewResolver? (Research the ViewResolver)

List some stereotype annotations. What are the differences between these?

How would you declare which HTTP requests you’d like a controller to process?

What is the difference between @RequestMapping and @GetMapping?

How to declare the data format your controller expects from requests or will create in responses?

How would you extract query and path parameters from a request URL in your controller?

How would you specify HTTP status codes to return from your controller?

How would you consume an external web service using Spring?

What are the advantages of using RestTemplate?

Extra Research
What annotation would you use to bypass the ViewResolver?

What concerns is the controller layer supposed to handle vs the service layer?

How do you handle exceptions thrown in your code from your controller? What happens if you don’t set up any exception handling?

Spring AOP
What is “aspect-oriented programming”? Define an aspect.

Give an example of a cross-cutting concern you could use AOP to address

Define the following:

Join point

Pointcut

Advice

What are the different types of advice? What is special about the @Around advice? How is the ProceedingJoinPoint used?

Explain the pointcut expression syntax

What visibility must Spring bean methods have to be proxied using Spring AOP?

Spring Data
What is Spring ORM and Spring Data?

What does @Transactional do? What is the PlatformTransactionManager?

What interfaces are available in Spring Data JPA?

What is the difference between JPARepository and CrudRepository?

What is the naming conventions for methods in Spring Data repositories?

How are Spring repositories implemented by Spring at runtime?

What is @Query used for?

Extra Research
What is the Template design pattern and what is the JDBC template?

What is a PersistenceContext?

Explain how to integrate Spring and Hibernate using ContextualSession

Spring Boot
How is Spring Boot different from legacy Spring applications? What does it mean that it is “opinionated”?

What does “convention over configuration” mean?

What annotation would you use for Spring Boot apps? What does it do behind the scenes?

What is the advantage of having an embedded Tomcat server?

What is the Spring Boot actuator? What information can it give you?

What files would you use to configure Spring Boot applications?

What is the benefit of using Spring Boot profiles?

Extra Research
How does Boot’s autoconfiguration work?

What is the significance of the Spring Boot starter POM?

**React**

What is React? Is it a library or framework?
React is an opensource front-end Javascript library used to develop SPAs (Single Page Applications)
Library that acts like a framework. It is lightweight compared to other options like Angular

What is the different between a library and framework?
A library is essentially a set of functions that you can call, these days usually organized into classes. Each call does some work and returns control to the client.
A framework embodies some abstract design, with more behavior built in

Why use React?
Flexible. Ability to reuse code through the use of modular UI components.
The main purpose of React is to be fast, scalable, and simple

What is the difference Between React and ReactDOM?
'react-dom' acts as a glue between components and DOM. You will be using render() method of the react-dom to render components in the DOM
The react-dom package provides DOM-specific methods that can be used at the top level of your app
DOM stands for 'Document Object Model'. In simple terms, it is a structured representation of the HTML elements that are present in a webpage or web-app.
DOM represents the entire UI of your application

How many HTML pages does our React App use?
1, you can redirect to other pages but it is made to work as a SPA

What is a SPA?
Single Page Application - web application that interacts with the user by dynamically writing the current webpage
with new data

What are some benefits of a SPA?
Performance / Faster (slower at first bc it needs to load everything, once loaded, its faster)
Small-sized library, UI components, Client-side and server-side rendering
Easier bc you need to display less pages, testing is easier, less money to launch a quality SPA

What are some downsides of a SPA?
It is much more difficult to implement SEO techniques on SPA.
A lot of small issues need to be solved manually.
With large JS data volume, the pages download can be low-speed which significantly hurts the user experience.

What is the package.json?
A package.json is a JSON file that exists at the root of a Javascript/Node project. It holds metadata relevant to the project and it is used for managing the project’s dependencies, scripts, version and a whole lot more.

What is node_modules?
The node_modules folder is used to save all downloaded packages from NPM in your computer for the JavaScript project that you have.
Developers are always recommended to do a fresh install with npm install each time they downloaded a JavaScript project into their computer.

What is the build folder?
When we run npm run build , we see output in /build folder. npm run build. Builds the app for production to the build folder. It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance. The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.

What is ReactDOM.render?
Render a React element into the DOM in the supplied container and return a reference to the component (or returns null for stateless components).
Renders the JSX and puts it into the root tag

What is react.createElement?
Dynamic way to create elements.
Create and return a new React element of the given type.

What is App.tsx? Why do we structure it in that way?
Like any other componement, like the main component we are rendering.

What are the roles of Babel and Webpack?
Babel: a transpiler i.e. it converts the JSX to vanilla JavaScript. You can view babel as an intermediate step between your code and "executable" code. React also uses ES6, which is not supported by most of the browsers. Babel converts the ES6 code to a code which is compatible with the browsers
Webpack: Most React apps will have their files “bundled” using tools like Webpack:
Bundling is the process of following imported files and merging them into a single file: a “bundle”. This bundle can then be included on a webpage to load an entire app at once.

What does it mean to be component-based? What does a component represent?
Separting the logic into small pieces of code that can work independently and be reused.
component: small portion of the entire application which has its own: state, view, logic

Tell me how you would start up a new React project? What does 'create react app' setup for you?
create-react-app 'app-name' --template typescript
creates a template with all of the base files that you need to start working on your application.

How would you create a component?
Create a new file inside of the folder and then assign the extention of whatever language you are using
Functional Component: export const Login: React.FC <any> = () => {}
Class Component: class className extends React.Component{}

Why use components?
Seperate logic, resuability, easier to debug

What does a component have to render/return?
it returns JSX which is imported into the root tag and then displayed

What are "props"? What is state? What data should be put in which?
props: are params from a parent component passed into a child component
state: component scope
State is similar to props, but it is private and fully controlled by the component.

What is the lifecycle of a component?
the series of methods that are invoked in different stages of the component's existence.
Initialization, Mounting, Updating, Unmounting

What is the difference between a functional and a class component?
A functional component is just a plain JavaScript function that accepts props as an argument and returns a React element. A class component requires you to extend from React.
FC: need hooks
Class: use lifecycle methods

What are React hooks? How do we use them?
Hooks are functions that let you “hook into” React state and lifecycle features from function components.

What do these hooks let us do?
They let you use state and other React features without writing a class. Hooks are backwards-compatible.
Hooks are functions that let you “hook into” React state and lifecycle features from function components

How do we save info in a component?
store: data held that is intended to share across components
this.: use this to store things that shouldn't trigger a re-render

What is the purpose of a container component?
Container components can be primarily referred to as the parent elements of other components in a React app. They serve as a bridge between the normal components that render the UI and the logic that makes the UI components interactive and dynamic
The most common function of a container component is to obtain data. Obtaining data doesn't mean the traditional way of fetching data from an API's endpoint, it also has to do with the logic of a React component. Once the process of executing the logic or obtaining data in the component is complete.

What is routing and how would you do routing in React?
Routing is a process in which a user is directed to different pages based on their action or request.
Use the React Router library

What are some of the differences between JSX HTML and normal HTML?
normal HTML: class, <input style='border: 1px solid black; border-radius: 4px'/> // no curly braces or single ticks between each value/element
JSX HTML: className, <input style={{border: '1px solid black', borderRadius: '4px'}}/> // curcly braces with single ticks between each value/element
must return a single parent element in JSX

How do you handle events in React?
use camelCase rather than lowercase, with JSX you pass a function as the event handler, rather than a string
Another difference is that you cannot return false to prevent default behavior in React. You must call preventDefault explicitly.

What is Data Binding?
Data Binding is the process of connecting the view element or user interface, with the data which populates it

Does React have 1-way or 2-way data binding and data flow?
one way flow, parent to child. can't do the other way around.
Use Redux (Flux Design Pattern) to have a central store to store data, all components can access data from the store

If a parent component has data that a child component needs to access, what should you do
Use props to pass down data from a parent to a child

If you have state in two child components that a parent component needs access to, what is a good solution for that?
Centralized State - Redux

How do you do conditional rendering?
Conditional rendering is a term to describe the ability to render different user interface (UI) markup if a condition is true or false.
Use ternary operation to decide which one to render

What should you remember to include as a prop for lists of elements?
A unique “key” is a special string attribute you need to include when creating lists of elements

How do we use TypeScript in React?
by using the --template typescript when using create-react-app

What are some pros/cons of using TypeScript in a React application?
pros: highlights errors immediately, static typing, self documenting code: easier to read and spot bugs
cons: bloated code: more code - potential to slow down the development process, New syntax for type-only imports and exports, typescript specific syntax

_How would you handle forms and submitting forms with React?_
Similar to HTML, use a <form onSubmit = {this.handleSubmit}> form handler and an input for submitting

How do you recommend making an AJAX call in React? Which library have you used? Why not use fetch directly?
Axios does things for you that fetch doesn't. It defines the structure and parses from JSON to objects and vice versa

How do you test React components and code that you write?
Using Jest - default that comes with react
Enzyme - testing utility that makes it easier to test your component output

What are some options for styling your React components?
inline CSS, external CSS
Stylable: is CSS for components - built for SCC styling in large projects

What is the Flux design pattern?
Flux is a pattern for managing how data flows through a React application

What is Redux? How is Redux related to Flux?
Redux: implementation of the flux design pattern

What are the core principles of Redux? 1) State is read only 2) changes are made with pure functions: A function is said to be pure if the return value is determined by its input values only and the return value is always the same for the same input values. A React component is said to be pure if it renders the same output for the same state and props. (TL;DR won't get different output values with using the same input values) 3) Single store of information - single source of turth

What is the difference between mapStateToProps() and mapDispatchToProps()? (This is how we use redux with class based components)
mapStateToProps: It connects redux state to props of react component.
mapDispatchToProps: It connects redux actions to react props.

What are the advantages of keeping all component states in the Redux store?
Everything has access to all of the data - Global data access
Making information more traceable and predictable
can improve debugging.

What is Redux DevTools?
Redux DevTools for debugging application's state changes. The extension provides power-ups for your Redux development workflow.
Redux-Devtools provide us debugging platform for Redux apps. It allows us to perform time-travel debugging and live editing.
Some of the features in official documentation are as follows − It lets you inspect every state and action payload.
It lets you go back in time by “cancelling” actions.

What are some features of the Redux DevTools?
It lets you inspect every state and action payload.
It lets you go back in time by “cancelling” actions.
If you change the reducer code, each “staged” action will be re-evaluated.
If the reducers throw, we can identify the error and also during which action this happened.

What is an Action in Redux?
Redux data flow. Actions: Actions are a plain JavaScript object that contains information. Actions are the only source of information for the store. Actions have a type field that tells what kind of action to perform and all other fields contain information or data.
Actions carry a payload of information from your application to the store

What is 'store' in Redux?
Central store of information meant for application state
a store holds the whole state tree of your application - it allows components to share state
A store is an immutable object tree in Redux. A store is a state container which holds the application's state. Redux can have only a single store in your application. Whenever a store is created in Redux, you need to specify the reducer. Let us see how we can create a store using the createStore method from Redux.

What are some store methods?
getState(), dispatch(action), subscribe(listener), replaceReducer(nextReducer)

How to access Redux store outside a react component?
no need to pass the store as a prop or import it, just use the connect function from React Redux,
and supply a mapStateToProps function that pulls out the data you need.

How to structure Redux top-level directories?
1 Components Used for “dumb” React components unaware of Redux
2 Containers Used for “smart” React components connected to Redux
3 Actions Used for all action creators, where file name corresponds to part of the app
4 Reducers Used for all reducers, where file name corresponds to state key
5 Store Used for store initialization This structure works well for small and mid-level size apps.

What are reducers in redux?
exist between an action and a store - they take a payload and an action and they calculate the state change
In Redux, a reducer is a pure function that takes an action and the previous state of the application and returns the new state. The action describes what happened and it is the reducer's job to return the new state based on that action.

What are some things you should never do in a Reducer?
Don't mutate the sate
Perform side effects like API calls and routing transitions
Call non-pure functions, e.g. Date.now() or Math.random()

What is the virtual DOM?
The virtual DOM (VDOM) is a programming concept where an ideal, or “virtual”, representation of a UI is kept in memory and synced with the “real” DOM by a library such as ReactDOM. This process is called reconciliation.

How does virtual DOM compare to the DOM?
The Virtual DOM is a light-weight abstraction of the DOM. You can think of it as a copy of the DOM, that can be updated without affecting the actual DOM. It has all the same properties as the real DOM object, but doesn't have the ability to write to the screen like the real DOM.

What about a higher-order component?
A higher-order component (HOC) is an advanced technique in React for reusing component logic.
HOCs are not part of the React API, per se. They are a pattern that emerges from React's compositional nature.
Concretely, a higher-order component is a function that takes a component and returns a new component.

What is a pure component vs a normal one vs a higher order one?
pure component: doesn't render when the value of the state in props has been updated with the same value - does a shallow comparison on state change
normal compont: doesn't do a shallow comparison on state change - it'll rerender by default whenever shouldComponentUpdate() is called
higher order c: see the question above AND -> a higher-order component is a function that takes a component and returns a new component.

Why is it important to use setState() and replace the whole object instead of editing it directly?
tells react that the component and its children that it needs to be rerendered

What is a "thunk"? What is redux-thunk used for?
Redux Thunk is a middleware that lets you call action creators that return a function instead of an action object.
functions that can be used instead of objects to promise that an object will be given at a later time
